<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_skate_types_derby">
 <title>Guide to Derby Skates</title>
 <shortdesc>Roller derby is a competitive contact sport that is played on quad roller skates that
  are built for speed and flexibility. More equipment is used than just skates, but the skates are,
  of course, the most important piece of equipment--so quality matters.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>There are many different skate brands, each with their own unique pros and cons. The range of
   quality and cost is wide, and as such, certain brands of skates may be more suited than others
   for beginners to the sport. Some brands of skates ship with low-quality wheels, plates, or
   bearings on them. If this is the case, higher-quality parts should be purchased and installed on
   the skates in place of the cheaper parts. The skates that are the highest quality and that cost
   the most typically don't need this. When purchasing skates, always consider the advantages of
   leather boots over vinyl. (Price ranges listed here do not reflect junior skate packages.)</p>
  <table>
   <title>Top 8 Skate Brands</title>
   <tgroup cols="10">
    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <colspec colname="c5" colnum="5" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <colspec colname="c6" colnum="6" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <colspec colname="c7" colnum="7" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <colspec colname="c8" colnum="8" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <colspec colname="c9" colnum="9" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <colspec colname="c10" colnum="10" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry><p>Bont</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Antik</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Vanilla</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Riedell/R3</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Atom</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Sure-Grip</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Jackson</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Rock</p></entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry><p>Quality</p></entry>
      <entry><p>High</p></entry>
      <entry><p>High</p></entry>
      <entry><p>High</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Medium to High</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Medium to High</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Low to Medium</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Low to Medium</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Low to Medium</p></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><p>Price Range</p></entry>
      <entry><p>$300-$1000+</p></entry>
      <entry><p>$250-$1000+</p></entry>
      <entry><p>$250-$1000</p></entry>
      <entry><p>R3 $100-$500, others $300-$1000</p></entry>
      <entry><p>$200-$600</p></entry>
      <entry><p>$125-$900</p></entry>
      <entry><p>$100-$500</p></entry>
      <entry><p>$90-$300</p></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><p>Suits Level</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Advanced</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Advanced</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Advanced</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Beginner (R3) to Advanced</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Intermediate to Advanced</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Beginner</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Beginner</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Beginner</p></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><p>Need Parts Swap</p></entry>
      <entry><p>No</p></entry>
      <entry><p>No</p></entry>
      <entry><p>No</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Depends on skate package</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Depends on skate package</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Yes</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Yes</p></entry>
      <entry><p>Yes</p></entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p>If you are skating for recreational purposes or are joining a roller derby team and don't have a large budget, consider
   reaching out to your local derby players and buying or borrowing secondhand equipment. Even if you're buying a new pair of
   skates, you may decide that you want better quality  or extra wheels, bearings, or other parts, and be able to get them
   cheaply.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
